# Covid_Tracker
## Team Members: Yuko Matsumoto, Andrew Yu, and David Rowe

 https://youtu.be/RsUW_1qVLN8
 
## Problem:
Covid-19 has hit hard around the world and here in the United States. Based on news reports, there may be certain areas (states) that are doing worse than others in terms of both death and infection rates of Covid-19. We believe that it’s important to identify areas that are suffering with higher cases so that more attention and resources can be given to those states in terms of vaccine distribution and preventative measures.

## Motivation:
The hope of this project is to empower medical and governing authorities with information that makes them more aware of areas and states with higher infection and death rates so that counter measures can be focused on those areas most affected by Covid-19. Saving lives with information is our primary motivation within the scope of our project. We want to help solve the problems associated with the Covid-19 pandemic in the United States and  we look to do so by enabling authorities with open access to data.

## Features:
Our project will display two search results of Covid-19 cases based on geographical areas within the United States. Each result relies on a separate data structure implementation and shows the time taken for each structure. We will allow the user to sort the state data by the greatest number of deaths or cases. Our program will display the top n amount of affected states where n is a user input along with a selected date and a preset current date. Our formulated data will result in a listing of the top states with Covid-19 cases / deaths, and the information can be reset and repeated based on user input. In terms of the GUI, there are text boxes that give error messages if something is written that does not meet the correct parameters. After each option has a valid input then the search button allows the user to see the tabulation results generated by the data structures. The user can exit the program at any time with the quit button.

## Description of data:
Our software project will produce the states within the country that have the highest reported cases of Covid-19 based on information publicly reported by the Humanitarian Data Exchange (HDX) at https://data.humdata.org/dataset/nyt-covid-19-data which is updated on a regular basis. Also, the schema of the data set will consist of multiple columns- date, state, deaths, and cases respectively which enables for efficient parsing and storage of the data into the data structure. The data set tabulations will be accessible through the user interface built into the program. We used a cvs that takes states and counts their deaths and cases. However, one challenge encountered with our data is that it does not extend past July. Thus the program would end up having to cut off the dates early as opposed to using the current date. Also, given the size of the original csv file, we needed to modify the data by reducing the overall record count from over a million records down to approximately just over 100,000 records to conform to both the project data requirements and demo video time constraints.

## Tools/Languages/APIs/Libraries:
SFML, chrono, algorithms, C++11, STL, Visual Studios, Github

## Data Structures/Algorithms implemented:
BTree, HashTable. More concisely, we are populating the data structures with the data from the (HDX) CSV files where each row contains specific state’s infection/death rate, total the states by record, and then sort the states in descending order. We utilize various scratch based functions with our data structures in a variety of ways to assist in the processing and sorting of the csv file data. We time each data structure for performance utilizing a high resolution clock from the chrono library.
 
## Data Structures/Algorithms:
Both the BTree and Hashtable are used and displayed in the GUI side by side.

## Distribution of Responsibility and Roles: 
Each member of the group will be assigned a role that allows for the development of a program module which will be integrated into our overall program for the final project. Every member contributed to the documentation. David and Andrew worked on the presentation and bug fixing.
Andrew: created the basic GUI functions such as designing the program, making sure the buttons functions worked correctly, as well creating input fields. 
David: Added the back-end functionality such as retrieving data from the CSV file and determining the most affected states with covid-19 using the associated data structures and also worked on bug fixing. David delivered the presentation and also helped with integrating other member’s modules into the main program.
Yuko: created the data structures, Btree and Hash table, to store the data as required and also worked on bug fixing.

## Analysis:
We were planning to add a search by state function, however, we believed that it was an unnecessary burden given the allotted time for our project and that the GUI would not look as balanced given our interface design. Additionally, we changed the data structure from AVL Trees to BTrees since we were prohibited from utilizing a data structure that we have already implemented in past projects. BTrees were chosen because they allow for easy sorting of the data while the data structure remains balanced for efficiency.

Finally, the roles of the team members changed, while Andrew and Yuko still worked on the gui and data structures respectively, David also worked on integrating the two codes together as well as worked on bugs.

1) Main function-The main function has a while loop that will never end until a condition is met. However the for loop function is O(n) where n is the size of the text vector.
2) checkNum():- O(1)
3) storeImage():- O(1)
Btree:
1) Traversing The tree:- O(n)
2) Top states with higher number of cases:- O(result number)
3) Top states with higher number of deaths:- O(n)
4) Top states with higher number of deaths/cases on a particular date:- O(n)

HashTable:
1) Traversing the Table:- O(n)
2) Top States with higher number of cases:- O(50)
3) Top states with higher number of deaths:- O(n)
4) Top states with higher number of deaths/cases on a particular date:- O(n)

Integration Driver:
1) Populate data structures with csv file data:- O(n) where n is number of records in file.
2) Display top states based on user input for deaths/cases:- O(n) where n is the number of records processed.



